# delete-comments

`delete-comments` is a Perl script that leverages existing
(private) TeX parsing libraries to remove comments from
TeX/LaTeX files.

Note that this script depends heavily on custom, private
Perl libraries that should not be distributed (crucially,
the TeX parsing libraries). I have not included these
libraries so this script **will not** run. Nonetheless, I
find it to be a good example of my code, as well as a good
example of creating code that leverages existing
software. In lieu of functional code, in the `tests`
directory I have included two files: `main.tex` and
`main_nocomm.tex`. `main.tex` is an example of an input to
`delete-comments` and `main_nocomm.tex` is an example of the
output.

## Goal

The goal of `delete-comments` is relatively simple: remove
comments (explicit and implicit) from any TeX/LaTeX file.

Based on the environment it is used in, it performs a few
operations.

1. The files it is used on are typically tracked in an SVN
repository. First, `delete-comments` checks that everything
is under SVN control and up-to-date.

2. `delete-comments` will then compile the input file to
make sure that it will not (later) introduce breaking
changes.

3. It then parses the input file to remove all comments,
storing the output in a `_nocomm` suffixed file.

4. It then compiles the output file to make sure it has not
introduced breaking changes.

5. It then performs a visual diff of the outputs to ensure
that it has also not changed the presentation of the file.

6. If everything has gone successfully, `delete-comments`
then replaces the input with the output and commits the
changes to the SVN repository.

## Usage

```
delete-comments [options] file_1.tex [file_2.tex file_3.tex ...]
```

### Options

- `--verbose`|`--debug`|`--quiet`: Enables various levels of
  logging.

- `--no-clean`: Do not remove intermediate files (such as
  `.aux`, `.log`, etc.) generated by TeX compilation.

- `--no-replace`: Do not replace the input file with its
  output, even if they do not differ.

- `--no-svn`: Do not perform SVN operations/checks. Note
  that this functionally implies `--no-replace`.

- `--no-validate`: Do not check the the input and output
  files compile; do not check for visual diffs.

- `--no-preamble`: Do not remove any comments from the
  document preamble.

- `--no-bibliography`: Do not remove any comments from a
  bibliography.

- `--inprod`: Shorthand for `--no-preamble
  --no-bibliography`.

- `--no-conditionals`: Do not attempt to remove conditionals
  used as commenting mechanisms.

- `--no-macros`: Do not attempt to remove macros used as
  commenting mechanisms.

- `--no-protection`: By default, `delete-comments` protects
  certain environments where comments should be protected
  (such as, e.g., `verbatim` or `listing`
  environments). This options disables this protection.

