# Config

`config` is a Perl script I developed to back up, generate,
and install various configuration files.

As with many people, I originally started backing up my
configuration files by keeping them in a Git
repository. Over time, this became unwieldy for several
reasons:

1. First, and most importantly, I found myself developing
multiple different versions of mostly similar config files,
depending on the host they were installed on. For example,
my personal work computer runs a relatively recent Ubuntu
release, but many of the servers I work on run older
releases. This means that tools I use everywhere, such as
`tmux`, have differing versions and syntax depending on
which machine I use it on. As such, I ended up having
multiple versions of largely identical configurations.

2. Again, working on multiple hosts meant that there are
instances where a certain config should _not_ be deployed on
certain hosts.

3. Despite keeping the configs backed up, remembering where
and how to install them became a point of contention.

## Goal

With these points in mind, I decided it would be best to
create a script that could parse a _generic_ verson of a
configuration file to generate, and then install, a
host-specific version of the config.

## Implementation

The design is relatively simple. First, there is a JSON file
that acts as a configuration database of sorts. It contains
every single configuration file, which hosts the
configuration file should be installed on, where the generic
configuration is stored, and where the host-specific
configuration should be installed to. It also contains a
list of valid hosts. This is
[`configs/config-list.json`](./configs/config-list.json). 

For each configuration file, there is also a generic
configuration stored in `configs/generic`.

When `config generate [configuration]` is run, the
host-specific configuration file is generated and stored in
`configs/configs`. When `config install [configuration]` is
run, the host-specific configuration file in
`configs/configs` is then installed to the appropriate place
on the system (assuming you have the correct permissions to
do so).

## Usage

```
config [list|list-all|check|diff|install|generate] [configuration|collection]
```

### Subcommands

- `list`: Lists the configs to be handled by `config` on the
  given host.

- `list-all`: Lists the configs to be handled by `config` on
  the given host along with their sources and installation
  targets.

- `check`: Checks if the currently installed configuration
  files differ from the ones generated by `config`. Note:
  `config generate` must have been run already for this to
  function correctly.

- `diff`: Checks if the currently installed configuration
  files differ from the ones generated by `config` and if
  they do, returns a diff to `STDOUT`. Same caveat as
  `check`.

- `install`: Installs the host-specific configuration files
  generated by `config`. Same caveat as `check`. Note that
  `install` will skip any configuration file that does not
  differ from the variant generated by `config`.

- `generate`: Generates the host-specific configuration
  files from the generic configurations.

Note that if no arguments are provided, `config` defaults to
`check`, i.e. `config check` and `config` are identical.

### Configs and collections

The arguments to `config` can be one of two things: either
the name of a configuration specified in `config-list.json`
_or_ the name of a _collection_ specified in
`config-list.json`. Note that you can name a configuration
whatever you want, it does not need to be related to what
the configuration is at all. So, for example, the following
is a perfectly acceptable entry/name for your `.bashrc`:

```
        "foobar":{
            "source":"bash/bashrc",
            "target":"$HOME/.bashrc",
            "exclude": []
        },
```

Using this entry, you would generate and install your
`.bashrc` via `config generate foobar` and `config install
foobar`, respectively.

A _collection_ is just a list of related configurations
grouped under one name. For example, I keep my bash
configuration very modular. As such, I have a bash
collection defined like so:

```
        "bash":[
            "bash-env-vars",
            "bash-aliases",
            "bashrc",
            "bash-func-cd",
            "bash-func-svn",
            "bash-cd-path",
            "bash-src-path"
        ],
```

Thus, to generate **all** of my bash configuration files and
install them, I can simply do `config generate bash` and
`config install bash`, respectively. It also gives the
flexibility to just regenerate and install one
configuration, if desired. Again, the caveat that applies to
configuration names applies to collection names; I could
just as easily call my collection of bash configurations
`foobar` and use `config generate foobar` and `config
install foobar`, respectively.

Note that if you do not specify any configuration or
collection as an argument to `config`, it will default to
all configurations, for any subcommand. Thus `config
generate` will generate _every_ configuration that should be
installed on the host you are on.


## A worked example

Here's an example of how the system works. We'll use my
[`tmux`](./configs/generic/tmux) configuration as an
example. On my main work computer, I have tmux 3.4. Many of
the hosts I work on use tmux 2.6. The syntax between these
versions has changed, so I need to generate different
versions of this configuration depending on which host I'm
on.

For the purpose of this example, we'll assume the hosts are
`local` (which uses tmux 3.4) and `snargle` (which uses tmux
2.6).

In our `config-list.json` file, we have the following entry:

```
        "tmux":{
            "target":"$HOME/.tmux.conf",
            "source":"tmux",
            "exclude": []
        }
```

This means we have a configuration named `tmux`. Its generic
source is in `configs/generic/tmux` (and its host-specific
config will be `configs/configs/tmux` once generated). This
configuration is excluded from no hosts. Finally, the
installation target for the generated config is
`~/.tmux.confg`. 

In the generic configuration file, we have

```
# Colors

[config:local,shrek]
set -g message-style bg=#000000,fg=#ffffff
set -g status-style  bg=#000000,fg=#ffffff
[config:snargle,devin]
set -g message-bg default
set -g message-fg default
```

Here's how `config` parses the generic configs. At any given
moment, `config` keeps a list of 'acceptable hosts'. When
`config` encounters a line, if your current host is in the
'acceptable hosts' list, it writes the line out to the
generated config, otherwise it gobbles the line.

You can modify the list of 'acceptable hosts' at any point
by inserting a meta `[config:...]` line into the generic
configuration. These lines work as such:

1. You specify a list of hosts. Thus
`[config:local,snargle]` means that the list of acceptable
hosts is just `local` and `snargle`.

2. An asterisk functions as a wildcard that expands to all
hosts. Thus `[config:*]` means the list of acceptable hosts
contains every host.

3. Prefacing a host with a `-` or `+` removes or adds
(resp.) the host from the list of acceptable hosts ***if***
it is the first entry. You can also add a negated/added host
to list of hosts to remove/add it from the acceptable hosts
list. So, for example, if the acceptable hosts list consists
of `local` and `snargle`, the line `[config:-snargle]` will
remove `snargle` from the acceptable hosts list (so that it
will just contain `local`). `[config:*,-local]` will add
every host to the acceptable hosts list, then remove
`local`.

With this in mind, suppose we run `config generate tmux` on
the host `local`. The output of the above blurb then becomes

```
# Colors

set -g message-style bg=#000000,fg=#ffffff
set -g status-style  bg=#000000,fg=#ffffff
```

which is the correct syntax for tmux 3.4.

On the other hand, if we run `config generate tmux` on the
host `snargle`, the output would be

```
# Colors

set -g message-bg default
set -g message-fg default
```

which is the correct syntax for tmux 2.6.

Finally, running `config install tmux` will copy the
host-specific configuration from `configs/configs/tmux` to
`~/.tmux.conf`.

## Notes

For the purposes of privacy and security, I have removed the
vast majority of my configurations from the portfolio,
leaving in only a few that are benign to make public. In
practice, I use `config` to manage around 50 or so
configurations.